Then of course, you're gonna probably
produce some form of design comp or
mockup or something like that.
And we've actually already test briefly,
sorry,
we've already touched briefly on the kinds
of tests that you can do at this stage.
So I talked about the five second test,
where you show them the design for
five seconds, then you hide it and
you ask them some questions.
You might ask them which was the question
I said previously of what items did
you see on the page?
And that gives you an idea of whether
you got the visual hierarchy right.
You could also make note of the order
in which people have written stuff in,
because the things they write first
are the things that had the biggest
impact on them.
So that can give you an idea of whether
you've got the emphasis of the page right.
Or another one often asked is,
please describe in your own words what
the website you've just seen offers.
And that's often a very depressing test
to read because you think you've been
really clear and
said exactly what your website is about,
and then they think it's about
something entirely different.
Something as fundamental as what do you do
often can be poorly
communicated on websites.
So five second test,
really great little test to run.
As I said, you can do that
on a tool like UsabilityHub.
Then there's first click tests,
which I mentioned earlier, so
you ask people to click on a graphic
to complete a particular task.
So where would you click to sign up for
our newsletter?
And are people clicking
in the right place?
And you'll get a heat map like this
sort of show where people have clicked.
And you can very quickly get an idea
of whether people are getting confused
by two areas that are named very similar
or might have similar content in.
So this is really great where
a client insists on going with,
the classic one is you have
a series of products, right?
And each product has
got its own fancy name,
the Robo 3000 and the Navigator Pro and
things like that.
And the client is going with our product
names, we must have them, right?
And so you end up with these content
blocks for each product, okay?
And you know nobody's gonna have
a clue what any of those things are.
So what you do is you run a quick test,
the first click test that says,
click on the, you want to find
out more about a product that
enables you to do XYZ,
where would you click?
And of course,
the product names don't describe that.
And so people don't know where to click,
they click in the wrong place, and you've
got evidence then to say Mr. Client, Mr.
Stakeholder, you are a dumbass.
But you don't say it like
that because you're nice.
So first click test can be really useful.
And then there's what I call
the semantic differential survey,
which often can be called
a brand keyword survey.
Which is where you show the design
to people and you say, on a scale of
one to five, how much do you agree with
the statement this design is friendly or
trustworthy, etc.?
Or you show them the competition and
your design together, and
you go select the design above
that you consider most friendly.
So you can start to build up a picture
then of what's friendly, what's not,
what's working and what isn't from
the aesthetics point of view.
And all of that, as I said, you can do
with a tool called usabilityhub.com.
I think it's quite a pricey tool for
what it is, but
they have a free option that I think
is a really good free account.
So you can get away with doing
most of what I've talked about
using their free account.
And then I talked about eye tracking,
didn't I?
And I talked about potentially, I like
to think of eye tracking as like, or
particularly eye tracking simulation
software, as like a spell checker for
designers.
How do you know people are gonna
look where you want them to?
It's not 100% accurate all the time, but
it will give you a pretty good idea.
So you can use Attention Insight,
which is the website on the right, for
that kinda simulation software,
where you can just upload a design and
it'll create heat map based on
where it thinks people will look.
I use that all the time, just using their
free account, to sanity check for me.
It's also really good for
showing to clients when they complain
that maybe the call to action
isn't visible enough or that my logo
needs to be bigger or whatever.
You've got evidence to prove that
people are seeing that stuff.
If you wanna do real eye tracking,
believe it or not,
that is now possible without
any special equipment.
All you need is a laptop with a webcam.
And there's this amazing software called
RealEye that will help you with that.
But maybe we're getting a bit carried away
talking about eye tracking studies in
this one.
But hopefully I'm showing you
relatively lightweight quick ways.
Uploading a graphic to Attention Insight
takes like 30 seconds and
you get instant sense of
where people are gonna look.
So after the design, you might go
into building a more fancy prototype,
where all your pages interlink and
it's high fidelity.
You might be skipping some of these
stages, and that's fine if you are.
I'm not saying that everybody
needs to do all of this.
But if you do prototyping, again,
some remote facilitated testing
tends to work quite well.
The reason I do it facilitated here,
in other words,
you sit in on the sessions and kinda help
people, is with a prototype website,
there's obviously bits that work and
bits that don't work.
So people need a bit of help
when they inevitably click
on something that's broken or
isn't working properly.
So you need to be around for that.
Well, when you're testing a live site,
you can do it unfacilitated
cuz everything should work.
And then when you get into the actual
build, you're actually building the thing,
sure, I mean, you should be able to do
some unfacilitated remote testing right at
the end there.
Point people at a website and
ask them to complete certain key tasks.
Oftentimes I'll do bit more eye
tracking stuff at that point
because we've got a lot of changes
have been made as we go along, but
all fairly simple stuff that shouldn't
be too time-consuming to do.
You don't need to do all of that
testing I've outlined there.
You can just pick and
choose what you've got the time and
the budget to do within the project.
I would advise if you're
gonna do anything,
test early because that's when you
get the most value from testing.
If I could only pick one stage to test,
it would be to test design comps.
Because not only do you get the benefit of
things like first click tests that tell
you if you've got your navigation right.
You get the five second test which
tells you whether you got your
visual hierarchy right, and
your brand keyword test that tells you
whether you've got your aesthetics right.
So not only do you get a lot
of real valuable data, but
it also avoids that endless iteration and
back and forth with the client.
So I think you get the most bang for
your buck at the design stage, but
really, you can be testing throughout.